# GIMM
In my effort to showcase this game’s concept and see how it works in execution, I created a workable prototype for my game, currently titled in a 2-month period. The prototype’s premise essentially would be a player character and an enemy character in a small arena setting and by communicating with each other, they create their own “speech bubbles” that they shoot at each other, representing how humans communicate via the Internet. For this prototype, this is VR compatible so I’ll explain how this game is played with the Oculus Rift Controllers. You can move around with the joysticks and look around using the headset. There are only two buttons on the controllers that matter: the A and X buttons.  
The A button spawns a Speech Bubble prefab into the scene above the player’s head. The Speech Bubble prefab, in the final game, is supposed to use the player’s microphone to record their voice so that they can talk and communicate and essentially make their conversation their own. For now, in this prototype, the prefab uses pre-recorded voice clips of varying lengths to recreate the effect and to show some of the creativity that players can have fun with. When you do press the A button, you have to hold it down (This is to recreate the recording effect) and you can’t let go of it until the voice clip has finished playing. The length of the voice clip is indicated by the blue bar in the bottom left corner. Once the voice clip has finished (or the blue bar has reached its maximum length), it will automatically fire in the direction of where the player is facing (where the player is looking in the Oculus). That speech bubble prefab’s behavior is entirely based on the voice clip itself. For this prototype, it’s behavior, speed, and damage is based on how long the voice clip is. If it is a long voice clip, it will move at a slower pace but will have a larger amount of damage if it hits its opponent. If it is a short voice clip, it will move at a faster pace but will have only a small amount of damage.  
The X button will automatically send out a bomb with a gentle “toss.” That bomb after a small period of time, will detonate. When it does, it will essentially produce a force that will throw any objects around it. It doesn’t do any damage, but it will stop your opponent from completing his speech bubble. 
The enemy (the red character in the game) has a large box collider that reaches the edges of the arena. When the player enters the arena, the enemy will automatically start firing at the player. It will has a delay of five seconds so no matter how long the audio clip for the speech bubble is, it will always fire 5 seconds after it’s done playing. It tracks the position of the player so it will turn and aim at the player whenever the player moves. It will also know the distance between the player and the enemy and will follow the player’s position based on. There is a major glitch that should be talked about that I was unable to fix before the prototype is done. If the player gets close enough to the enemy, they will rotate their bodies in the X direction to face up to the camera. 

In the middle of the arena, there’s a spinning green token. When a player or an enemy manages to get it, it will add 25 health to their component. (This was initially supposed to add a behavior to the speech bubble prefab, but ultimately I couldn’t implement it anything in time.) 

Regarding the development of this prototype, there was one fatal flaw in my thinking. When I created it, I was solely focused on creating just a game, not thinking of the other components that this prototype needed. I never really focused on the VR components until the ending of the prototype period. And, when I tried to integrate it into the prototype, it ended up creating complications that couldn't be fixed in time.  
